#labels android,test
Android API doesn't allow to create animated widget. Anyway, there are some workarounds. 

<a href="http://code.google.com/p/dvsrc/source/browse/trunk/Android/TestAnimatedWidget">TestAnimatedWidget</a> is example of creation animated widget. It tests two approaches for animation emulation. First one uses <code>remoteViews.setImageViewResource(R.id.AAA, R.drawable.BBB)</code> to pass id of next animation frame to remote view. Second one uses <code>remoteViews.setImageViewBitmap(R.id.AAA, bitmap)</code> to pass "generated" bitmap to remote view. Bitmaps are simply loaded from resources. To change approaches, please change value of flag USE_GENERATED_BITMAPS in class TestAnimatedWidgetProvider.

First approach is fast enough. Second is terribly slow and generates errors "!! FAILED BINDER TRANSACTION !!". As result, it's a problem to create animated widget that generates animation bitmaps on the fly.

<b>Some useful links</b>

My <a href="http://derevyanko.blogspot.com/2010/10/android-how-to.html">original blog message</a>, in Russian.

<a href="http://code.google.com/p/dvsrc/source/browse/trunk/Android/TestAnimatedWidget">Source codes of TestAnimatedWidget</a>

<a href="http://code.google.com/p/dvsrc/downloads/detail?name=TestAnimatedWidget.7z&can=2&q=">Download TestAnimatedWidget source codes as 7z-archive</a>.

Alternative desktop <a href="http://code.google.com/p/android-launcher-plus/">Launcher plus</a> and <a href="http://code.google.com/p/animated-widget-for-hpp/">sample of animated widget</a> for this desktop.

Animated widget <a href="http://androidcommunity.com/forums/f7/animated-widgets-on-with-google-devices-26383/">Flip Clock</a> that uses only static animation from resources.

<a href="http://andytsui.wordpress.com/2010/06/06/animating-android-home-screen-widget/">Animating Android home-screen widget</a> - detailed description of common principles of animated widget creation.

Some useful issues on android google codes: 
<a href="http://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=9580&q=animation%20widget&colspec=ID%20Type%20Status%20Owner%20Summary%20Stars">animated widget</a>, <a href="http://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=8489&q=setImageViewBitmap&colspec=ID%20Type%20Status%20Owner%20Summary%20Stars">setImageViewBitmap() doesn't work on android 2.2</a>, <a href="http://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=6957&q=setImageViewBitmap&colspec=ID%20Type%20Status%20Owner%20Summary%20Stars">possibility to use setImageViewUri instead of setImageViewBitmap</a>.